---
title: "POST Audit Log Created"
source_url: "https://developer.greenlake.hpe.com/docs/greenlake/services/audit-logs/public/catalog/audit-log-event-latest/webhooks/paths/audit%20log%20created/post.md"
scraped_at: "2026-06-07T06:13:56.826144+00:00Z"
---

# Audit Log Created Event

Triggered when an audit log event is created.Event type—com.hpe.greenlake.audit-log.v1.logs.created

Endpoint: POST Audit Log Created
Version: 1.0.0

## Request fields (application/json):

  - `specversion` (string, required)
    The version of the CloudEvents specification the event adheres to.
    Example: 1

  - `id` (string, required)
    The unique identifier for the event.
    Example: "123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000"

  - `source` (string, required)
    The source field is a URI-reference that identifies the event producer.
    Example: "Compute"

  - `type` (string, required)
    The type of event.
    Example: "AUDIT_LOGS"

  - `subject` (string, required)

  - `data` (object, required)
    The event payload.

  - `data.customer_id` (string, required)
    The platform customer ID or workspace ID.
    Example: "1234567190abcdef1234567890abcdef"

  - `data.username` (string, required)
    Username of the user publishing the audit log event.

  - `data.app_slug` (string, required)
    A short and unique reference to an application resource.
    Example: "COM"

  - `data.audit_info` (object, required)

  - `data.audit_info.username` (string)
    The username of the user associated with the audit log.

  - `data.audit_info.category` (string)
    Type of activity that was logged.
    Example: "User Management"

  - `data.audit_info.customer_name` (string)
    The workspace name or customer name.
    Example: "Sasha's Workspace"

  - `data.audit_info.account_type` (string)
    The type of HPE GreenLake account such as standalone, MSP, or tenant.
    Example: "MSP"

  - `data.audit_info.msp_id` (string)
    The unique identifier of a managed service provider (MSP).
    Example: "5434567890abcdef1234567890abcdef"

  - `data.audit_info.audit_created_at` (string)
    The date and time the audit log was created.
    Example: "2023-10-01T12:00:00Z"

  - `data.audit_info.additional_info` (object)
    Additional information related to the audit log event or the application.
    Example: {"ip_address":"171.217.21.14"}

  - `data.audit_info.has_details` (boolean)
    If set to true, the audit_details property is available for the audit log. This enables the UI to display the audit log details in the side panel.

  - `data.app_instance_id` (string)
    The unique identifier of a specific application. Generated by HPE GreenLake.
    Example: "3f8e1b2-1234-5678-90ab-cdef12345678"

  - `data.application_customer_id` (string)
    This is the unique identifier of the customer associated with the application.

  - `data.audit_details` (object)
    Additional details associated with the audit log.
    Example: {"header":"value","body":"value"}

  - `data.enable_streaming` (string)
    Indicates whether streaming is enabled for the audit log.
    Example: "true or false"

  - `data.created_at` (string)
    The date and time the audit log was created in [RFC 3339](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc3339) format.

  - `time` (string)
    The date and time the event occurred in [RFC 3339](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc3339) format.
    Example: "2023-10-01T12:00:00Z"

  - `dataschema` (string)
    A URI pointing to the data property schema.

  - `datacontenttype` (string)
    The encoding of the data in the data property in [RFC 2046](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc2046) format.


