---
title: "Webhooks"
source_url: "https://developer.greenlake.hpe.com/docs/greenlake/services/event/public/webhooks.md"
scraped_at: "2026-06-07T06:13:27.638135+00:00Z"
---

# Webhooks

Webhooks enable automated, real-time communication between HPE GreenLake cloud services and an external server of your choosing. For example, a webhook could notify you when a new audit log is created, or when subscriptions are about to expire.

When you register a webhook on HPE GreenLake, you provide a webhook URL for a webhook destination and then subscribe to events. When the event happens (for example, an audit log is created), HPE GreenLake sends an HTTP request with a message in JSON format to the webhook destination that you defined. The message contains factual details about the event.

You can configure your server to take action when it receives a message at the webhook destination.

## **Webhooks and APIs**

HPE GreenLake provides APIs to manage your workspace programmatically. Webhooks and APIs are similar but serve different purposes. A webhook pushes information to you when an event occurs, while with an API, you request information by calling an endpoint as needed. Whether a webhook or an API call is the best approach depends on your scenario.

- **Webhooks**—Use webhooks when:
  - You want close to real-time communication.
  - The communication is one way from HPE GreenLake to your webhook URL.
  - The event type requires immediate response from your organization.
  - There is a need for third-party integration.
- **APIs**—Use APIs when you must access and manipulate data or when
your information request is sporadic or one time. API calls also allow
you to create, update, and delete information.


## Webhook verification

HPE GreenLake webhooks use an optional verification challenge process
to ensure that webhook connections are legitimate and secure. This verification
is enabled by default, but you can choose to skip it if needed. However, it is
strongly recommended to implement webhook verification for security purposes. HPE
GreenLake secures webhook notifications through HMAC (Hash-based
Message Authentication Code) with SHA-256, a cryptographic hashing
algorithm.

### Challenge request

After registering a webhook, a verification challenge is sent to the
destination (the Webhook URL) by default. The event type is
`com.hpe.greenlake.events.v1beta1.webhooks.verification`. The challenge
request includes a unique, random string generated by the server sent
in the body as a payload.


```json
  {
    "specversion" : "1.0",
    "type" : "com.hpe.greenlake.events.v1beta1.webhooks.verification",
    "source" : "https://global.api.greenlake.hpe.com/events",
    "id" : "C234-1234-1234",
    "time" : "2018-04-05T17:31:00Z",
    "datacontenttype" : "application/json",
    "data" : {
        "challengeRequest" : "<TOKEN>"
    }
  }
```

### Challenge response

The destination must read the value from the `challengeRequest` field and
create an HMAC SHA-256 hash, using the webhook secret as salt and the
challengeRequest value as a string to hash. When successful, the
destination responds with a JSON object with the format
`{"verification": "CREATED_HASH"}`and an HTTP 200 OK status.

### Retry attempts

There is a maximum of three authentication attempts allowed. While
attempting to authenticate, the webhook state is in the pending
status. If there is a failure to respond, the webhook goes into the
critical state. The three retries are completed within a maximum of 10
seconds.

1. The first retry occurs two seconds after the initial failure.
2. The second retry is scheduled for three seconds after the first
retry.
3. The third and final retry takes place five seconds after the second
retry.


### Validating signatures

When setting up a webhook, you provide a **Webhook Secret** and
webhook notifications include an HMAC signature in the HTTP header
HPE-Webhook-Signature. This signature is prefixed with sha256=,
indicating the use of SHA-256 for signature generation. These
signatures must be validated at the destination:

1. Extract the signature from the HPE-Webhook-Signature header, noting the `sha256=` prefix.
2. Generate an HMAC signature with SHA-256 signature using the received payload and the **Webhook Secret.**
3. Match the extracted signature with the generated one to confirm the integrity and authenticity of the message.
4. In the case of a signature mismatch, reject the request by responding with any HTTP status code other than 200, indicating an invalid or unauthenticated request. A signature mismatch implies tampering or spoofing.


### Shared secret rotation

Rotating a webhook's shared secret periodically helps ensure that webhook communications stay secure. You should rotate (in other words, change) it if you suspect a shared secret was compromised. However, if you use only one shared secret and rotate the key, there might be downtime until webhook destinations verify that the signature is updated. HPE GreenLake allows you to enter two shared secrets to avoid this downtime. Having two shared secrets allows you to use the second secret for verification while rotating the first, thus enabling zero downtime rotation.

With two shared secrets added, HPE GreenLake sends the shared secrets as separate headers. For example:


```bash
"hpe-webhook-signature": "sha256=e4fc3767ff7ed4a011b51eecad17ede130ba880f31327d266c277c670019bec2",
"hpe-webhook-signature2": "sha256=d60cada56c3ab97869aa7c20ffa82765a1f3ad23bd8d3ae5a6efcd49e215daae",
```

Configure your webhook destination to match both, and consider it a success if one of them is correct.

## Webhook states

Webhooks states indicate the status of the webhook. There are five
webhook states.

**Pending**—The pending state is assigned when HPE GreenLake has sent a
verification challenge to the webhook destination and is awaiting a
successful response. This is the initial state after a webhook
registration, and indicates that the verification process is in
progress.

For more information on webhook verification, see [Webhook verification](#webhook-verification).

**Active**—After receiving a successful response to the verification challenge,
the webhook enters the active state. This state indicates that the webhook is
operational and capable of sending notifications to its destination.

**Warning**—The webhook enters the warning state after crossing a threshold of
consecutive failures due to errors on the destination side. This state
serves as an alert that the webhook is experiencing issues, although
it is still processing events.

For more information on HTTPS status code and webhook failures, see [Webhook HTTPS status codes](#webhook-https-status-codes).

**Critical**—If the webhook destination continues to fail after multiple attempts
while in the warning state, it transitions to critical. In this state,
the system halts event processing for the affected webhook, requiring
manual intervention from the user to resolve the underlying issues.

**Disabled**—This state indicates that the webhook was intentionally turned off.
All processing and notification activities are stopped.

## Webhook HTTPS status codes

HTTPS status codes are three-digit numbers that indicate the outcome
of an API or webhook request. The codes provide information about
whether the request was successful or unsuccessful (failure). For
failed requests, the codes are accompanied by a message that suggest
the likely source of the issue.

- 100—199—The request was received, but the process is still ongoing.
- 200—299—The API or webhook request was accepted and successful.
- 300—399—This range of codes suggests a redirection has happened. For
example, the URL moved, and the response provides a new URL (301 Moved
Permanently).
- 400—499—A client error response. Typically, this range of status codes
suggest problems with the request, the data in the request, or invalid
authentication or authorization. In most cases, you can change the
request and resubmit. The responses in this range include information
intended to help determine the cause of the error and how to fix it.
- 500—599—A service error. Status codes in this range indicate that the
server or service was not able to execute due to, for example, a site
outage.


### Retries and failure modes

Any failure to deliver is logged as a failure.

- After the first failure, the webhook enters the warning state.
- If there are more than 20 failures in a 12 hour period, the webhook
enters the critical state.
- If there are no new failures in 12 hours, the webhook returns to the
active state.


### Definitions of important HTTPS status codes

The following table lists common HTTPS status codes and a description of what the code means.

HTTPS status codes definitions:

| Webhook HTTPS status code | Description | Retry | Failure |
|  --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 2xx | All 2xx responses indicate success. | No | No |
| 3xx | All 3xx codes result in an instant failure, and the webhook is disabled. A notification is sent to the creator of the webhook. | No | Yes |
| 404 Not Found | The resource was not found. | Yes | Yes |
| 410 Gone | This response code indicates that the requested content has been permanently deleted. | No | Yes |
| 413 Payload too large | The request is larger than defined limits. | Yes | Yes |
| 415 Unsupported Media Type | The code is returned when the media type of the request payload cannot be processed. For example, if the client sends a Content-Type: application/xml header, but only application/json is accepted. | Yes | Yes |
| 425 Too Early | This response code suggests that there is a chance that the request is replayed and there is a potential for a replay attack. | Yes | Yes |
| 429 Too Many Requests | Returned when the rate limit for the user, the application, or the token has exceeded a predefined value. | Yes | Yes |
| All other 4xx | All 4xx codes not defined in this table result in an instant failure, and the webhook is disabled. A notification is sent to the creator of the webhook. | No | Yes |
| 502 Bad Gateway | This code suggests that the server received an invalid response from the upstream server. | Yes | Yes |
| 503 Service Unavailable | The service is unavailable due to a temporary condition that is not considered an internal error. For example, when it cannot forward a request or if a service is unavailable. | Yes | Yes |
| 504 Gateway Timeout | This code suggests that the server did not get a response in time from the upstream server. | Yes | Yes |
| All other 5xx | All 5xx codes not defined in this table result in an instant failure, and the webhook is disabled. A notification is sent to the creator of the webhook. | No | Yes |


## Webhook rate limits

HPE GreenLake respects the rate limits specified by your webhook endpoints. This means you can specify the maximum number of event messages your webhook destination can receive per minute.

HPE GreenLake sends an **HTTP OPTIONS request** to your webhook endpoint to negotiate setting the rate limit. Rate limit negotiation happens during webhook registration, webhook updates, webhook testing, and during heartbeat checks.

The process can be outlined as follows:

1. HPE GreenLake sends an OPTIONS request with the `WebHook-Request-Origin` header.
2. Your endpoint responds with a `WebHook-Allowed-Rate` header. You need to write code or otherwise configure your endpoint to respond to the OPTIONS request.
3. HPE GreenLake parses, stores, and respects your specified rate limit.
4. Events are delivered according to your rate limit.


CloudEvents
See the CloudEvents documentation for more information on:

- [The HTTPS OPTIONS method](https://github.com/cloudevents/spec/blob/main/cloudevents/http-webhook.md#41-validation-request)
- [The Webhook-Allowed-Rate](https://github.com/cloudevents/spec/blob/main/cloudevents/http-webhook.md#412-webhook-request-origin)
- [The Webhook-Request-Origin](https://github.com/cloudevents/spec/blob/main/cloudevents/http-webhook.md#412-webhook-request-origin)


An example of the OPTIONS request sent by HPE GreenLake:


```bash
OPTIONS /your-webhook-endpoint HTTP/1.1
Host: your-domain.com
Content-Type: application/json
WebHook-Request-Origin: https://common.cloud.hpe.com
Authorization: Bearer <your-token>
```

- `WebHook-Request-Origin`—Identifies the source of the webhook request (value: `https://common.cloud.hpe.com`)
- `Authorization`—Your authentication token (if configured)


Your webhook destination can respond with the following values:

| Value | Format | Description | Example |
|  --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Positive integer | `120` | Set a fixed-rate of requests per minute | `WebHook-Allowed-Rate: 120` |
| Unlimited | `"*"` | No rate limiting | `WebHook-Allowed-Rate: *` |
| Not Specified | *(no header)* | Uses the system default | *(omit header)* |


You cannot include `0`, negative numbers (for example, `-100`), non-numeric strings, or empty strings.

Following are examples of responses to the OPTIONS request.

Fixed number of requests per minute:


```bash
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
WebHook-Allowed-Origin: https://common.cloud.hpe.com
WebHook-Allowed-Rate: 120
```

Unlimited rate limit:


```bash
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
WebHook-Allowed-Rate: *
Allow: POST
WebHook-Allowed-Origin: https://common.cloud.hpe.com
```

No rate limit:


```bash
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Allow: POST
WebHook-Allowed-Origin: https://common.cloud.hpe.com
```

To change your rate limit configuration, update the header value returned by your OPTIONS endpoint. The new rate limit will be applied on the next OPTIONS request from HPE GreenLake.

## Configure a webhook handler

To receive HPE GreenLake events, you must configure a webhook destination endpoint that can listen for, accept, and respond to events sent by HPE GreenLake.

Once you have created and tested your webhook destination, you can use the HPE GreenLake UI to register the webhook and subscribe to events. When the event you are subscribed to occurs, HPE GreenLake sends an HTTP request with data about the event to your webhook destination URL.

This tutorial steps you through an example process to configure a webhook destination endpoint.

HPE Developer Community
The HPE GreenLake Developer Community blog post [Getting started with webhooks on HPE GreenLake cloud](https://developer.hpe.com/blog/getting-started-with-the-hpe-greenlake-cloud-eventing-framework/) provides a low-code walkthrough of creating a webhook handler.

### Step 1—Create a webhook destination endpoint

A webhook destination endpoint is a valid HTTPS endpoint (HTTP endpoints are not supported) on your server with a URL.

- The server must be able to receive and respond to `POST` requests from HPE GreenLake.
- The destination server must use a publicly signed certificate.
- The URI path for the webhook destination is your choice.


Further, you should add an authentication scheme to your destination.

### Step 2—(Optional) Write code to respond to the verification challenge

Upon registering your webhook, HPE GreenLake sends a verification challenge to your webhook destination endpoint by default. While this verification step is optional and can be skipped, it is strongly recommended that you implement it to ensure secure webhook communications. You should ensure that the webhook destination endpoint responds promptly to the verification challenge. The verification challenge occurs during the initial registration of a webhook, when a webhook is edited, and when a webhook is deleted.

- The webhook destination endpoint will receive a `POST` request from HPE GreenLake.
- The event `type` for the verification challenge is `com.hpe.greenlake.events.v1beta1.webhooks.verification`, and it includes `"data" : {"challengeRequest" : "<TOKEN>"}}`. The webhook destination must read the value `<TOKEN>` from `challengeRequest` and create an HMAC SHA-256 hash, using the webhook secret as salt and the `challengeRequest` value as a string to hash.
- When successful, the destination must respond with a JSON object with the format `{'verification': 'CREATED_HASH'}` and a `HTTP 200 OK` status. Ensure that your webhook destination returns a `200` success response promptly, and **before** initializing any code or additional logic that could cause a timeout. Responding too slowly or with a non-200 status transitions the webhook to a `"state": "DISABLED"` and `"status": "WARNING"`.
- A maximum of three attempts to successfully respond to the verification challenge is allowed.


Example of challenge request:


```json
{
  "data": {
     "challengeRequest": "8cbecfea-d708-4706-bba3-669225084a10"
  },
  "datacontenttype": "application/json",
  "id": "9d2698f2-0dd4-4870-b026-7e18c755e121",
  "source": "//<region>.api.greenlake.hpe.com/<api-group>",
  "specversion": "1.0",
  "subject": "3009de2825f211ec8a84fedebcb4a754",
  "time": "2024-12-12T19:09:05Z",
  "type": "com.hpe.greenlake.events.v1beta1.webhooks.verification"
}
```

Your webhook destination must respond with something like the following:


```json

{
  "verification": "CREATED_HASH"
}
```

Learn more
Find out more about [Webhook verification](/docs/greenlake/services/event/public/webhooks#webhook-verification) and [Webhook States](/docs/greenlake/services/event/public/webhooks#webhook-states).

### Step 3—Configure the webhook destination to handle HPE GreenLake events

#### Validate signatures

HPE GreenLake uses HMAC (Hash-based Message Authentication Code) with SHA-256 to secure event messages.

Your webhook destination endpoint must be able to validate signatures.

- When registering a webhook, you create a secret key, `"secret": "<example-secret-key>"`. See [registering a webhook](/docs/greenlake/services/event/public/ui#registering-a-webhook) for more information.
- HPE GreenLake events contain an HMAC signature in the HTTP header `HPE-Webhook-Signature`, prefixed with `sha256=`. The event payload is hashed using SHA-256 combined with your secret key.


Your webhook endpoint destination must:

1. Extract the HMAC signature.
2. Generate the expected signature using the payload and the secret key.
3. Compare the extracted signature with the generated signature. A match confirms the authenticity of the event message.


A mismatch suggests tampering or spoofing. Your webhook destination endpoint must reject the request with any non-200 status code in this scenario.

The following code samples demonstrate how to generate the HMAC SHA-256 hash.


```python Python
import hmac
import hashlib
import json
def verify_challenge(body):
# Extract the challengeRequest value from the data
challenge_request = body.data.get("challengeRequest", "")

# Create the HMAC SHA-256 hash
secret = “YOUR_SECRET"
hmac_hash = hmac.new(
key=secret.encode('utf-8'),
msg=challenge_request.encode('utf-8'),
digestmod=hashlib.sha256
)

# Get the hexadecimal representation of the hash
hash_digest = hmac_hash.hexdigest()

# Return the verification response
return {"verification": hash_digest}
```


```js Javascript
function verifyChallenge(body) {
// Extract the challenge request
const challengeRequest = body.data?.challengeRequest || "";
// Secret key
const secret = “YOUR_SECRET";

const crypto = require('crypto');
// Create HMAC SHA-256 hash
const hmac = crypto.createHmac('sha256', secret);
hmac.update(challengeRequest);
const hashDigest = hmac.digest('hex');
// Return verification response
return { verification: hashDigest };
}
```

#### Receive JSON formatted POST requests

HPE GreenLake events are sent to the webhook destination as `POST` requests. Ensure that the webhook destination endpoint accepts `POST` requests with a JSON payload.

- Following the [CloudEvents standard](https://github.com/cloudevents/spec/blob/v1.0.1/spec.md), HPE GreenLake event headers include `"Content-Type: application/json"` declaring the format of the data being sent. Your webhook destination must be able to accept and parse this JSON payload.
  - An event might also include `"datacontenttype" : "application/json"`, which defines the media format of the `"data"` type.
- To guard against possible duplicate events, consider logging the event IDs you have already processed and implement logic not to process events already processed.
- The webhook destination endpoint must respond to correctly delivered events with a `2xx` status code.


Browse the event catalog to confirm the formatting and data returned for the events you are interested in. At a minimum, HPE GreenLake events return the `"specversion"`, `"id"`, `"source"`, and `"type"`. The `"type"` field provides information on the kind of event that happened, for example, that a resource was created, updated, or deleted.


```bash
curl -X POST <Your Webhook URI> \
-H "Content-Type: application/cloudevents+json" \
-d '{
 "specversion": "1.0",
 "type": "com.hpe.greenlake.data.v1.volumes.created",
 "source": "//<region>.api.greenlake.hpe.com/<api-group>",
 "id": "e8fc75c1-9ad5-432d-a858-499d9f279647",
'
```

More commonly, HPE GreenLake events include additional information like `"time"` and `"data"`. The `"data"` is the event payload, containing further information about the occurrence. This is either a single JSON object or an array of JSON objects.


```bash
curl -X POST <Your Webhook URI> \
-H "Content-Type: application/cloudevents+json" \
-d '{
 "specversion": "1.0",
 "type": "com.hpe.greenlake.data.v1.volumes.created",
 "source": "//<region>.api.greenlake.hpe.com/<api-group>",
 "id": "e8fc75c1-9ad5-432d-a858-499d9f279647",
 "time": "2023-08-19T09:00:00Z",
 "data": {
  "message": "Hello, World!"
 }
 }'
```

Learn more
Read the [Events documentation](/docs/greenlake/services/event/public/events) to learn more about the structure of HPE GreenLake events.

### Step 4—Test the webhook destination

Use cURL, Postman, or a similar tool to send a `POST` request to your webhook destination endpoint with a sample payload.

An example using cURL:


```bash
curl -X POST <Your Webhook URI> \
-H "Content-Type: application/cloudevents+json" \
-d '{
 "specversion": "1.0",
 "type": "com.hpe.greenlake.data.v1.volumes.created",
 "source": "//<region>.api.greenlake.hpe.com/compute-ops",
 "id": "e8fc75c1-9ad5-432d-a858-499d9f279647",
 "time": "2023-08-19T09:00:00Z",
 "data": {
 "message": "Hello, World!"
 }
 }'
```

Use your server console to check that the webhook was received and processed correctly.

During and after the registration of the webhook with HPE GreenLake, the HPE GreenLake UI provides options to [test webhooks](/docs/greenlake/services/event/public/ui#testing-a-webhook).

### Step 5—Secure your webhook destination

Take steps to secure your webhook destination.

- Use HTTPS communication.
- Consider restricting the webhook destination to the IP address of HPE GreenLake.
- Validate the signature of incoming requests to ensure that they are from HPE GreenLake.
- Implement rate limiting on your server.
- Take steps to prevent replay attacks.


### Step 6—Implement logic to process the events

Write code to process the events to match your organization's use cases for the webhook. For example, you could log events to a database, update a project management tool, or notify someone in your organization.

### Next steps

At this point, you have:

- Created your webhook destination endpoint and included logic to respond to the verification challenge.
- Configured your webhook destination to handle and parse HPE GreenLake events.
- Secured your webhook destination.
- Browsed the HPE GreenLake event catalog and developed use cases for the events.
- Implemented logic to process events.


Now, you can:

1. Register your webhook with HPE GreenLake. See how to use the [HPE GreenLake UI to register your webhook](/docs/greenlake/services/event/public/ui#registering-a-webhook).
2. After you have registered your webhook, [subscribe to events using the HPE GreenLake UI](/docs/greenlake/services/event/public/ui#subscribing-to-an-event).